- ==`Hashcat`== is a well known password cracking tool for:
	- `Linux`
	- `Windows`
	- `macOS`
- It is an open-source software and tool.
- Features:
	- fantastic GPU support
	- It can be used to crack a large variety of hashes
- Similar to `JtR` `hashcat` supports multiple attack modes.
- ###### Syntax:
	- `hashcat -a 0 -m 0 <hashes> [wordlist, rule, mask,...]`
	- In this command above:
		- ==`-a`== is used to specify attack mode
		- ==`-m`== is used to specify the hash type
		- ==`<hashes>`== is a either a hash string, or a file containing one or more password hashes of the same type.
		- ==`[wordlist, rule, mask,...]`== is a placeholder for additional arguments that depend on the attack mode.

- ## Hash Types:
	
	- Hashcat supports hundreds of different hash types, each of which is assigned a ID.
	- A list of associate ID's can be generated by using the command:
		- ==`hashcat --help`==
		- `hashid -m '<hash_value>'`

- ## Attack modes:
	
	- Hashcat has many different attack mode, including:
		- `Dictionary (-a 0)`
		- `BruteForce/Mask`
		- `Combinator`
		- `Association`
	
	- ### Dictionary attack(-a 0):
		
		- ==`Dictionary attack (-a 0)`== is, as the name suggests, a dictionary attack.
		- The use provides password hashes and a wordlist as input, and hashcat test each word in the list as a potential password until the correct one is found or the list exhausted.
			- ###### Command:
			
				- `hashcat -a 0 -m 0 <hash_value> <wordlist>`
			
		- A wordlist alone is often not enough to crack a password hash.
		- ==`rules`== can be used to perform specific modification to passwords to generate even more guesses.
			- The default ==`rules`== can be found in ==`/usr/share/hashcat/rules`==.
				- `ls -l /usr/share/hashcat/rules`
				- `hashcat -a 0 -m 0 <hash_Value> <wordlist> -r <rules>`
	
	- ### Brute Force/Mask attack(-a 3):
		
		- `Bruteforce or Mask attack (-a 3)` is a type of brute-force attack on which the key-space is explicitly defined by the user.
		- ###### Example:
			- If the user know that the password is 8 character long, rather than attempting every possible combination, Define a mask that test the combination of six letters followed by 2 number and so on.
		- A mask can be defined by the combining a sequence of symbols, each represents:
			- a built-in.
			- or custom set.
		- Hashcat includes several bult-in character sets:
			- Custom character set can be defined with the `-1, -2, -3 and -4` arguments{what character set are being used}, then referred to with `?1,?2,?3 and ?4` used {to map the character set}
				`- hashcat -a 3 -m 0 <hash_value> (-1 to -4) '<mapping_using(?1 to ?4)'>`
			- example:
				- `hashcat -a 3 -m 0 1e293d6912d074c0fd15844d803400dd -1 ?u -2 ?l -3 ?d -4 ?s '?u?l?l?l?l?d?s`' 

#### Built-in masks:

| Symbol | Charset                             |
| ------ | ----------------------------------- |
| ?l     | abcdefghijklmnopqrstuvwxyz          |
| ?u     | ABCDEFGHIJKLMNOPQRSTUVWXYZ          |
| ?d     | 0123456789                          |
| ?h     | 0123456789abcdef                    |
| ?H     | 0123456789ABCDEF                    |
| ?s     | «space»!"#$%&'()*+,-./:;<=>?@[]^_`{ |
| ?a     | ?l?u?d?s                            |
| ?b     | 0x00-0xff                           |

[[Introduction to Password Attacks]]